# !!!THIS IS IN DEVELOPMENT!!!

# terraria-server

Quickly deploy a dedicated Terraria server to AWS.

Steps involved to deploy your server:

1. Clone/fork this repo.
2. Modify variables.
3. Setup a few things manually in AWS (details below)
4. Commit the code to your repo (let CI do the rest).

## Costs Overview

You can run this Terraria Server totally free for 12 months on an AWS Free Tier account.

AWS lets you use its services for [free](https://aws.amazon.com/free/) in three different ways:

- Free trials
- 12 months free
- Always free

Services uses in this deployment:

- AWS EC2 (12 months free)
  - Linux instance which will run the Terraria server
- AWS EBS (12 months free)
  - Storage volume for the EC2 instance
- *AWS CloudWatch (Always free)
  - For creating an alarm to monitoring billing
- *AWS SNS (Always free)
  - For receiving the alarms generated by CloudWatch
- *AWS DynamoDB (Always free)
  - For locking Terraform state
- *AWS S3 (12 months free)
  - For storing Terraform state
- *AWS CodePipeline (Always free)
  - Test our container before creating it
- *AWS Systems Manager (Always free)
  - To store some parameters

*\* Optional - modify the code if you don't want to use the optional services*

Something I'm considering adding later:

- AWS Pinpoint
  - Mobile notifications when players join world

## Pre-requisites

For both automatic and manual deployments, you'll need:

- An AWS account
  - If you want to use an AWS account you've had for more than 12 months, you will be billed for the use of EC2, EBS, and S3.
- AWS IAM user with programmatic access (access ID and secret key)
- AWS CLI already set up locally (run `aws configure` and enter access ID and key)
- If you want to use a remote Terraform state, you need an S3 bucket for storing it. Instead, you can also keep the state file in your repo if you'd like
  - See terraform/backend.tf
- If you want to use a remote Terraform state, you'll need a DynamoDB table to manage Terraform state locking
  - See terraform/backend.tf
- If you want to store parameters in AWS, you'll need to create them in advance in the AWS Systems Manager parameter store
  - See terraform/data.tf

For manual deployments, you'll also need:

- Have the following tools installed:
  - [Packer](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/packer/get-started-install-cli).
  - Terraform
  - Ansible
  - awscli

## Deploy Automatically

So you want your own Terraria Server automatically?! Here's how ya do it.

Clone (or [fork](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo)) and enter the repo

`git clone https://github.com/willquill/terraria-server.git && cd terraria-server`

Modify `dependencies.tf` to change the `github_name` variable to your own github.

Create your S3 bucket and DynamoDB table for Terraform state:

`terraform apply`

Change the following variables in the following files for your use-case:

- packer/amzn2-docker.auto.pkrvars.hcl


Create a [CircleCI](https://app.circleci.com) account. Connect it to your GitHub. Click "Set Up Project"


Commit the code

## Deploy Manually

Clone and enter this repo

`git clone https://github.com/willquill/terraria-server.git && cd terraria-server`

### Build your AMI

Hashicorp tutorial located [here](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/packer/aws-get-started-build-image?in=packer/aws-get-started).

What we're doing here:

- Specifying your AWS account credentials
- Creating an AMI on your AWS account for the Terraria server

#### Export your environmental variables

`export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=YOUR_ACCESS_KEY`

`export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=YOUR_SECRET_KEY`

#### Initialize, format, validate, build

`packer init .`

`packer fmt .`

`packer validate .`

`packer build .`

### Deploy the Terraform dependencies

From the root directory (don't be in the terraform directory):

Modify `dependencies.tf` to change the `github_name` variable to your own github.

Create your S3 bucket and DynamoDB table for Terraform state:

`terraform apply`

### Deploy the infrastructure

> *Terraform note: The values you provide in `terraform.tfvars` override the default values in `variables.tf`, and the names of variables in `variables.tf` represent strings, booleans, and such that you use in your various Terraform resources.*
> *If you're wondering why there are even two variable files at all, it's so you can provider default variable values yet use custom values with different applies, like `terraform apply -var-file="small-ec2.tfvars"` and `terraform apply -var-file="big-ec2.tfvars"`. Without specifying a var-file, if `terraform.tfvars` is present, Terraform will use those values. Otherwise, it will simply use the default variable values provided within input variables. So the tfvars file is optional*

Enter the `terraform` directory and do the following:

- Modify `backend.tf` to use the bucket you created in `dependencies.tf`
- Modify `terraform.tfvars` to use your own values
- In the AWS Console > AWS Systems Manager > Application Management > Parameter Store, manually add the parameters used in `data.tf`








## Deploy Latest Version

For a Docker environment, see the `environment/docker` branch

For a Proxmox (PVE) LXC environment, see the `environment/pve-lxc` branch

You can also see current and previous versions under Releases.

## FAQ

Q: Why not used EBS-Optimized?
A: Because in us-east-2, t2.micro is not available as EBS-Optimized. It's available for t3.micro, but t3.micro does not qualify in the free tier in us-east-2.

Q: Why not use the newer t3.micro instead of t2.micro?
A: See previous answer. In us-east-2, t3.micro does not qualify for free tier.

Q: Why not create a VPC?
A: While creating and using a VPC is free, using the NAT Gateway is not free. So I will simply use the default VPC and use a public IP address on my EC2 instance.

## License

Distributed under the MIT License. See `LICENSE` for more information.

## Thanks

- A lot of this taken from Robert's [rnwood13/cloud-media-requests](https://github.com/rnwood13/cloud-media-requests) repo. Thanks, Robert!
